>> Mike North: We're going to build on
what we've learned so far about Mixins.
And start to layer on some
more advanced Mixin topics.
The first thing we're going to look at
is the idea of default argument values.
These would be the values that
variables that are arguments to your
Mixin would get the values the variables
would have in the event that
you didn't pass anything to the Mixin for
that value.
And in this case, I'm also introducing
this concept of passing arguments to
Mixins in order, or passing them using
the keyword style of argument passing,
which is at the bottom here.
Where you can see that I'm using
the variable name color and
assigning it equal to green, and so
this is sort of using key value pairs.
On the bottom, right, using color green.
If you pass arguments this way, there is
no dependence on order, on argument order.
And so, this is useful if you've got
like three or four different things and
for two of them you wanna
fall back to a default value.
You can provide default values for
everything, and
then customize the first argument or
the second argument or the third argument.
It's pretty flexible, in fact there are
things you can do here that are a little
bit more flexible than what you
can do with JavaScript functions.
Where default values typically need to be
the last arguments in a function, right?
You can't like pick the third
one to customize that also
explicitly passing the first two.
So cool thing to know,
especially if you're reading CSS you
will encounter this and
wonder what the heck is going on.
This is what's going on.
I'm just gonna switch by
mirroring here real quick.
Right, building on this
topic of default values,
something interesting happens if
we pass null as a default value.
What ends up happening
in the CSS output is,
we will skip over the declaration
with a null value entirely.
It will not get built
into the output at all.
So in this case you can see
opacity's default value is null for
the btn style role here.
You can see that opacity never makes
its way into the CSS in any form.
So you don't have to
worry about inherit or
falling back to some reasonable default
of 1, 1.0 being the default opacity.
You can just skip over it entirely, and
it will be like this
role was never expressed.
So really useful aspect
of default values to use.
Now up until now,
Mixins have acted just sort of like
functions that evaluate to something.
And you get a style rules and
they're sort of merged into the selector,
inside which the Mixin is used.
Of building even one step on top of this,
we have the equivalent of a callback,
right, of the idea of passing something to
a Mixin that it could then place where
it wants to in the Mixins definition.
We can pass a declaration
block when we include a Mixin.
So here we've got a Mixin called
foo that takes in a color value.
And you can see that it uses the variable.
And then it has this
@content declaration there.
Essentially, what's gonna happen is
the block that's passed to this Mixin
will be put in place of that content,
right?
So over here on the right, you can see,
we passed color red to the Mixin and
that is applied to the inner
selector as a rule here.
And you can actually have
the content rendered more than once,
which is a really nice feature if you
have to target vendor specific tags.
So if you've ever done something
like styling pseudo elements
of a number spinner,
like an input number helper thing
with the up arrow and the down arrow.
And like you can style these things.
But there's a WebKit specific thing to do,
and
there's a Mozilla specific thing to do.
And largely that's the same
rule applied in two places, but
It's a different pseudo selector for each.
And you could just have the content
in two places inside your Mixin, and
it would end up being rendered twice,
potentially,
with the couple extra Mozilla or
Safari customization in place, right?
So pretty nice.
And I also like to use this
passing a declaration block for
media queries, right?
I hate having to remember the syntax for
a media query and
exactly what those screen widths are.
So I can create a Mixin that
just called like phone, and
its job is gonna be to have a media query
and then content immediately in there.
And so it's a much more manageable and
readable way of kind of wrapping
some CSS in something, right?
Something that's long and
difficult to remember.
Keeping my styles easy to manage and
easy to read.
And avoiding that tendency to like
miss a media query by 1 pixel,
cuz you can't remember like
do I lead up to this width or
do I fall just short of it before I
toggle over to the next break point.
This would kind of let
you skirt over that, and
have a dry approach to writing really
long selectors in general, right?
Dry meaning, don't repeat yourself.
>> Mike North: So
here we can pass in a block,
and here we use content to place
whatever was passed to the Mixin.
In the correct spot, and it's the Mixins
job to define exactly where that goes.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So
if we didn't pass in content,
would that inner just not be output?
>> Mike North: Good question, so if no
content block had been passed to foo,
what you would end up with is your
SASS would have an empty inner block.
And then there is an optimization in the
SASS compiler that would skip over that
entirely, cuz there's no point in
serializing the CSS equivalent out.
Now if we had another rule in the inner,
like you would get that inner block, but
it essentially turns into a no up, right?
You didn't end up with like
It turning into nothing.
Good question.
So we're going to put
this to use right away,
including all the stuff we've learned so
far.
These exercise is a little bit more
sizable than what we've been working on
before, and
it's a little bit more free form as well.